CSPP58001 Numerical Methods
Prof. Andrew Siegel
TA: Kyle Gerard Felker
Winter '13
----------------------------------
Homework #2
Due Wed, February 6

The next series of homework assignments will focus on the continuing development of a large-scale
 code development project rather than a collection of smaller assignments. 

Your first milestone is to develop a 3D heat diffusion solver in a non-interpreted language 
(presumably C, C++, or Fortran). The code requirements will emphasize the numerical techniques 
learned in lecture along with the practical goals of the CSPP program. 


Overall goal: Create a program which can solve the heat diffusion equation in 3 dimensions. 

Steps/milestones:

First, have your code setup an arbitrary Cartesian domain. Do not assume 
that the physical domain is of equal size in each dimension (i.e. l_x != l_y != l_z) 
and do not assume that the partitioning  is symmetric (i.e. the code does not require that dx != dy != dz).
Choose a reasonable diffusivity constant and time step. 
Use good programming etiquette (good comments, clean program structure, makefile, include a readme file). (10 pts)

Implement the following two schemes for discretizing the equation:
 - Forward-Time Central-Space (20 pts)
 - Crank-Nicolson Method (20 pts) (see NR, chapter 18)
 - OPTIONAL: Alternating Direction Implicit (ADI) Crank-Nicolson Method. This is the "operator splitting" method mentioned in lecture. The 3D system is tridiagonal. (Extra credit 20 pts)

How you solve the resulting linear system is up to you at this point (Gaussian elimination, Gauss Jordan, magic, etc.).
You do not have to use the most efficient method, but it is recommended to meet the performance
criteria that you not store the  entire matrix with all its zeroes. 

*Your code must have the following features built in:
 - A function that sets the initial condition (Gaussian+noise) (10 pts)
 - Ability to specify the following boundary conditions. (10 pts)
	- Dirichlet (constant) conditions
	- Periodic boundary conditions. (This is as though the domain "wraps" around like a cylinder.
	The boundary conditions are equal to the temperature on the opposite side.)
 - An arbitrary time-independent "source term" added to the right hand side of the equation
   (ie specified S(i,j,k), where S is given)
It is recommended to first prototype these boundary conditions in the 1D problem in MATLAB to get a 
feel for how they behave. 

Output (graphics, binary, text) is not required for this benchmark, but implementing it is 
recommended to ensure proper functioning of your code. One way of doing this is to print the 
temperature at a certain slice "z-height" to a formatted text file every n number of timesteps, 
separating the time step temperature data by new lines. Then, plot the data in MATLAB or your 
favorite graphics utility.

--------------------------
Analysis
--------------------------
Include timers in your code for evaluating total runtime performance. Submit a plot of your code's
 "problem size" vs. "runtime per algorithmic timestep" for each of the implemented numerical methods. 
 When evaluating the performance, use boundary conditions equal to 0 and a cubic domain with dx=dy=dz. (20 pts)


