Homework 1
cspp51037, Summer 2012
Monday 4th week


You will write two separate versions of a two-player networked game of
Reversi -- one using sockets and one using rmi. If well written there
will be considerable code shared, but I expect the two applications to
be packaged separately. Since you will have 2.5 weeks to do this, I
expect a reasonable-looking interface. I won't require Swing, but if
you choose to go text-based then you should put some thought into how
to make it presentable. The Reversi server only needs to allow two
people to play at once (ie one game at a time), but I would also like
any number of "observers" to be able to log in subsequently and watch
a game. This can be a little tricky to present, so I'll let you make
the assumption that after 'X' and 'O' have connected, any subsequent
connections are from "observers". When the game ends, the server
should announce a winner and in some elegant manner allow for two new
players to login (after perhaps giving the old ones a chance to replay).

If you don't know the rules to reversi, they are well explained under
http://games.yahoo.com/games/rules/reversi/reversibasics.html?page=rv

We'll go over this in class in more detail, but this is basically it. You
are free to make reasonable decisions yourself. I'll be more specific
about the handful of requirements (error checking, etc.) during the class.

Whatever you do, don't base your code on any existing java reversi source
that you happen to run into. This is designed for you to work on alone
with some guidance from your peers. This is very important.

I'll probably put up a reference implementation soon, but don't wait
for this to get started.

The assignment is worth 10 points total. 
Here are some suggested milestones in no particular order.

- decide on/write backend object(s) as we discussed in class: 2 point
- write socket version with scripting interface and no oberservers: 5 points
- improve interface -- perhaps use swing: 1 point for any decent interface
- add observers : 1 point
- rmi version: 2 points

submission: Email the TA (and cc Professor) a zip/tar/tgz/ file that 
includes both parts of the homework. The file should be named with your
first initial and last name (e.g. Ali's would be aalkhafaji.zip).

Once you send mail, await a (received, thanks) email. If you don't
receive one within a couple of hours, then please resend it.

